.Dd $Mdocdate: May 6 2022 $
.Dt TINYRAMFS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tinyramfs
.Nd configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A
.Nm
configuration file is written in POSIX sh, as it will be sourced by the
.Nm
script. Configuration is done via variable assignment (eg: variable=value). Special characters must be quoted or escaped as is standard in POSIX shell. The
.Nm
utility will use /etc/tinyramfs/config as its configuration file by default.
.Pp
Some options are only relevant when the relevant hook has been selected. Those options have been divided into subsections.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It hooks 
A comma separated list of hooks to include when creating the initramfs. A list of valid hooks can be found in /lib/tinyramfs/hook.d.
.It monolith
Takes a value of 1 or 0. Determines wheter or not to include kernel modules in the initramfs.
.It compress
The compression utility to use when creating the initramfs.
Common values are: gzip, xz, zstd, lz4, cat (uncompressed).
.Pp
Note: Initramfs compression support has to be enabled in the kernel configuration via the CONFIG_RD_<COMP_ALGO> options.
.It tmpdir
The temporary directory to use when creating the initramfs.
.It hostonly
A value of 1 or 0. Determines whether or not the initramfs created should only copy modules required for your specific system.
.It root_type
The type of root filesystem you're using (eg. ext4).
.Ss KEYMAP
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It keymap_path
Path to your keymap.
.Ss LUKS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It luks_discard
Allow the use of discard (TRIM) requests for the device.
.Pp
Warning: This option may have a negative security impact. For more info read
.Xr cryptsetup 8 .
.It luks_header
Path to your LUKS header.
.It luks_root
The partition on which your LUKS root volume is located.
.It luks_name
The name to map your LUKS device to.
.It luks_key
Path to your LUKS keyfile.
.Ss LVM
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It lvm_config
Path to your LVM configuration file.
.It lvm_discard
Allow the use of discard (TRIM) requests for the device.
.It lvm_group
The name of the volume group where the root filesystem resides.
.It lvm_name
The name of the logical volume on which the root filesystem resides.
.It lvm_tag
The tag name of your logical volume.
.Ss ZFS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It zfs_key
Path to your ZFS keyfile.
.It zfs_root
The partition on which your ZFS root volume is located.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/tinyramfs/config -compact
.It Pa /etc/tinyramfs/config
default
.Nm
configuration file
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tinyramfs 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An illiliti Lk https://github.com/illiliti
